Serverless changelog Sept 15, 2025 (#2963)
elastic/docs-content: release-notes/elastic-cloud-serverless/index.md

# {{serverless-full}} changelog [elastic-cloud-serverless-changelog]
Review the changes, fixes, and more to {{serverless-full}}.

## September 15, 2025 [serverless-changelog-09152025]

### Features and enhancements [serverless-changelog-09152025-features-enhancements]

> * Improves the ES|QL suggestions logic when a query changes [#231767]({{kib-pull}}231767)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improves the {{esql}} suggestions logic when a query changes [#231767]({{kib-pull}}231767)
```

* Updates the appearance popover in Lens metric charts [#233992]({{kib-pull}}233992)
* Adds support for installing `alerting_rule_template` assets from packages [#233533]({{kib-pull}}233533)
* Removes the default query limit of 10 [#234349]({{kib-pull}}234349)
* Adds support for remote cluster lookup mode indices in the editor [#232907]({{kib-pull}}232907)

> * Extends ES|QL autocomplete to include columns from lookup indices and enrichment policies after `LOOKUP JOIN` and `ENRICH` commands [#233221]({{kib-pull}}233221)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extends {{esql}} autocomplete to include columns from lookup indices and enrichment policies after `LOOKUP JOIN` and `ENRICH` commands [#233221]({{kib-pull}}233221)
```

* Adds a trace waterfall visualization for logs [#234072]({{kib-pull}}234072)
* Adds end-to-end UI tests for onboarding page validation [#232363]({{kib-pull}}232363)
* Updates the Playwright end-to-end tests to support Logs Essentials tier functionality [#234644]({{kib-pull}}234644)
* Introduces a Security Risk Scoring AI Assistant tool [#233647]({{kib-pull}}233647)
* Enables the SentinelOne `runscript` response action [#234492]({{kib-pull}}234492)
* Extends the `origin_info_collection` advanced policy setting to include `origin_url`, `origin_referrer_url`, and `Ext.windows.zone_identifier` fields for Windows process events [#234268]({{kib-pull}}234268)
* Restricts access to **Value report** to `admin` and `soc_manager` roles in complete tier [#234377]({{kib-pull}}234377)

> * Ensures **Tech Preview** badge is shown for the default inference endpoint for e5 on the inference endpoints UI [#234811]({{kib-pull}}234811)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensures the **Tech Preview** badge is shown for the default inference endpoint for e5 on the inference endpoints UI [#234811]({{kib-pull}}234811)
```

* Ensures mapped fields are remembered across simulations [#233799]({{kib-pull}}233799)

### Fixes [serverless-changelog-09152025-fixes]

* Hides the side navigation during report generation [#234675]({{kib-pull}}234675)
* Fixes a bug where the save modal allowed duplicate saves of dashboards, visualizations, and other assets [#233933]({{kib-pull}}233933)
* Fixes an issue with special character handling when creating a pipeline from the flyout [#233651]({{kib-pull}}233651)
* Fixes a bug where the toggle column only worked on the **Alerts** page [#234278]({{kib-pull}}234278)
* Correctly updates the `@timestamp` and `event.ingested` fields when a privileged user is updated [#233735]({{kib-pull}}233735)
* Returns a `500` response code if there is an error during monitoring engine initialization [#234368]({{kib-pull}}234368)
* Fixes table highlighting issues in flyouts [#234222]({{kib-pull}}234222)

> * Fixes issues in AI Assistant where conversation messages were not appended and titles were not updated [#233219]({{kib-pull}}233219)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes issues in AI Assistant where it didn't append conversation messages or update titles [#233219]({{kib-pull}}233219)
```

* Enables repeated System Prompt navigation from the **Conversations** tab [#234812]({{kib-pull}}234812)
* Increases the `bulkGet` limit [#234151]({{kib-pull}}234151)

> * Fixes an issue on the **API Keys Management** page that occurred when loading API keys with null names [#234083]({{kib-pull}}234083)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue on the API Keys Management page that occurred when loading API keys with null names [#234083]({{kib-pull}}234083)
```
